In this section, we talk about behavioral segments.
You won't see behavioral segments anywhere
in the Google Analytics interface under that name.
But we're referring to the segments as behavioral segments
because they're based on very specific user behaviors.
As we know in Google Analytics,
when we're talking about behaviors,
we're basically talking about page views and events.
But before we define behavioral segments,
let's consider a philosophical question.
If you have a help page or an FAQ section on
your website or even let's say an about us page,
what's the purpose of that page?
The immediate reason of course is to provide help or to provide some form of information.
But the ultimate reason that we go through the trouble of developing
the supplemental pages is to increase conversions.
If our model is transactional in any way,
we want to drive towards increased conversions.
Let's say that you have included a video on your transactional website.
What's the purpose of the video?
The immediate reason is to inform or entertain,
and we want to be able to measure how many times the video is viewed.
Ultimately, the reason that we post the video on
a transactional site in most cases is to increase conversions.
We don't want to go through the trouble and expense of
producing a video just to have visitors watch the video.
We want the video to positively influence conversions.
With this, let's define some behavioral segments.
On the Google Merchandise Store,
we see that there's a help page.
Is this help page having a positive impact on conversions?
Let's start by going to the all pages report in
Google Analytics and seeing which page we have to base our segment on.
Let's copy this value.
We'll click Add Segment.
In this case, we don't have a segment
that's already been defined that we could start with.
So, we will have to define a new segment from scratch.
We'll click New Segment.
What we're going to do is actually skip over all of these starting conditions.
We're going to have more options if we click Conditions.
So, when you're defining a new segment,
go write that conditions,
everything that we need will be available there.
Conditions. Where we see conversion probability,
this is actually just a drop down of all of
the dimensions and metrics we have to work with when creating segments.
Now, this segment is a behavioral segment based on a page dimension.
What's important to recognize,
when you're defining a segment based on page,
you're not saying I only want to see that page,
that wouldn't make any sense.
We could do that with a regular table filter.
What we're doing here is we're saying,
"I want to see all sessions that included
a page that exactly matches frequently asked questions."
We're pulling in the entire session,
not just that one page you hit within the session.
The page view is characterizing this session.
It's a behavioral segment based on pageview.
We'll call this segment.
FAQ Page Viewed, click Save.
Let's also add all users.
If we navigate to the goal overview page with all users in fact page
viewed segments still applied and we select Goal 1: Purchase Completed,
we can see that
the FAQ Page Viewed conversion rate was higher than the conversion rate for all users.
Now, it's not time to celebrate quite yet because we need to remember that
the FAQ Page Viewed segment is including
any session in which the FAQ page was viewed at any time,
that could have been after the transaction as well.
So, now we're going to create a different type of segment,
a sequence segment to determine if the FAQ page was in
fact viewed before the transaction in most cases, new segment.
This time we'll define a segment based on sequences.
Give ourselves some more room.
Step one page, exactly matches.
Frequently asked questions.
Add step is followed by goal on completions.
We want to choose per hit so the sequence is enforced.
If we said per session,
this would still mean that the goal completion could have
occurred before the view of the FAQ page.
Goal 1 completion is greater than zero,
and we'll call the segment FAQ Page Proceeding Goal 1 Completion.
We see that of the 164 goal
one completions that occurred in sessions in which the FAQ page was viewed,
a 120 of those goal completions occurred after the FAQ page was viewed.
This is pretty good but it's not quite a smashing success for the FAQ page.
So, I wouldn't recommend reorganizing
the navigation to get more people to the FAQ page based on this analysis.
But it was still useful to perform and certainly
the FAQ page doesn't seem to be harming transactions.
As an example of behavioral segments based on event data,
we could build segments based on video interactions of those are captured.
We don't have video data in the merchandise store account,
but this is an example of the conversion improvement
you could see when users watch videos in sessions.
We certainly have seen this kind of difference in conversion rate in
other Google Analytics accounts where video interactions are captured.
How would we build these segments?
Let's see. Again, starting from pretty much any report in GA,
click Add Segment, new segment.
We'll go right down to conditions.
In this case we're going to use three different dimensions.
We're going to start with event category, exactly matches video.
Now, if we wanted to create a segment just for any sessions in
which users interacted with any video in any way,
this would suffice as the segment definition.
But we're going to get more specific.
Event action, exactly matches.
Start on whatever you're using for your event action and event label,
exactly matches whatever the name of your video is.
Now, we're not getting any dynamic matching in the merchandise store account,
because these events values aren't matching anything that's currently captured,
but this would be the process of defining a segment for
all sessions in which users started your company video.
We can name this segment apply it.
We could define a sequence segment in the same way with
these dimensions being the first step and then transactions or goal completions,
greater than zero, as a second step.
Again, once we applied these segments we'd be able to see if
there was a correlation between video viewing and increase conversion rate.
In this case, the conversion rate for the video viewed segment
is a lot higher than for all users and we do also see that
891 of the 1,064 video viewed
transactions did occur when the video was viewed before the transaction.
So, in this case, it's probably fair to say that the video is
a good thing and we want to try to get more users to watch it.